What is machine learning ?

It is a process of making the machines to
learn themselves from the past data so that
they can make right decisions or predictions

examples:
 
house price predictions
weather prediction
car price prediction
object prediction
Cancer prediction
diabetes prediction

Applications :

Recommendations 

Netflix , amazon , youtube , ecommerce

Predictions

google maps , uber eta

(estimated time of arrival)

health :

cancer prediction etc

social media :

Recognition : face recognition,facebook etc

ai : self driving cars tesla

LINEAR REGRESSION ANALYSIS:

It is a technique which helps in establishing the
relation between dependent and independent 
varaibles.used when the output that we need 
to get is a continous value

Exampls of linear regression :

house price predictions , car price predictions
mobile price predictions , cricket score prediction

Equation : y=mx+c

Process : In order to establish the relation
we visualize the process by plotting the data
points that is x varaiable values in a graph 
and we try fit a line in between those points
and we find error by taking the sum of differe
nce between those points to our line 
and we minimize the error by adjjusting the line 
in between those data points and select the
line which is a best fit to data points


How to minimize the error ?

Gradient decent is one of the algorithms we
use for minimizing the error.we need to
 find the parameters of the line such that it
 makes the best fit.we initaially takes some 
random parameters we keep on changing the values 
these parameters in order to minimize the error 
.When we plot a graph of mse or cost function
and these parameters ,we get a curve
we need to find global minimum of that curve
and fix the parameters when we reach global minima.


Logistic regression

It is a clssification algorithm
used for finding probability
of occuring an event. used when output 
that we need to predict is discrete or 
categorical.

we used sigmoid function in order to 
make sure that our output varaiable is 0 or 1

Examples :
Rain
cancer
product buy or not
insurance


Decision Tree : It is also one classification
alogorithms which used to make prediction the
chnace of occuring an event
based on parameters.

Example : weather prediction(rain)
whther an employee is promoted or not
whether a perosn plays pubg or not

working :

It filters bsed on parameters lets take wen need
predict whether a person plays pubg or not 
so first we check there age and and in the age
we in the age we again check whether it is male
or female since this forms tree data structure
we call it as decision we takea take a decision
at each and evrery level of tree

entrpoy : measure of randomness
information : measure of entropy
gini impurity : measure of impurity

Random forest : Random forset is an advanced
version of decision tree It is similary to the working
of decision tree . It consistes of multiple
decison tress applied when dataset is complex

Ex : Objects detections

supervised

if we give the iput data as well as the output data 
as a part of training data then it is supervised learning

Use case

speech recognition
finger print recognition

unsupervised learning

if we give only input data as a part of training 
data then it is called unsupervised learning

Reinforcement learning

learns through feedback

ex : SARSA

use case

dynamic pricing in retail sector

Artificial Intelligence

AI is a technique which enables machines to mimic 
human behaviour

Algorithms in machine learning:

1.Classification algorithms
2.Anomoly detection algorithms
3.clustering algorithms
4.Regeression algorithms

1.Classification algorithms

examples :
Carbeakown , Rainfall ,Churn 

a.Logistic Regression

Diabetes prediction

b.Decision tree

It is a tree structure where each branch 
takes a decision .

loan repayment

c.Random forest

constructs multiple decision trees

Iris dataset.
Digit recognition.
Advantages:

1.high accuracy.
2.Training time is less.

d.Naive bayes 

based on bayes theorem

bayes thorem is conditional probability.

example :

Customer buys a product or not ?

parameters :

day , discount , free delivary

recall is the ratio of the number of events you can 
correctly recall, to the total number of events.

precision is the ratio of a number of events you can correctly recall, 
to the total number of events you can recall

Let’s consider a scenario of a fire emergency:

True Positive: If the alarm goes on in case of a fire.
Fire is positive and prediction made by the system is true.
False Positive: If the alarm goes on, and there is no fire.
System predicted fire to be positive which is a wrong prediction, hence the prediction is false.
False Negative: If the alarm does not ring but there was a fire.
System predicted fire to be negative which was false since there was fire.
True Negative: If the alarm does not ring and there was no fire.
The fire is negative and this prediction was true.

CONFUSION MATRIX :

IT IS A SIMPLE MATRIX WHICH IS USED
TO ANALYZE THE PERFORMACE OF A
MACHINE LEARNING MODEL

IT IS JUST LIKE A PROGRESS REPORT OF
YOUR MODEL

It consists of true postives ,false postive,
true negative, flase negative


Like if the output that we need to predict is
of 'yes' or 'no' type , it gives how many no.of
times your model predicted correctly, how many
how many no.of times ur model predicted wrogly

What is the difference between inductive and 
deductive learning?
Inductive learning is the process of
 using observations to draw conclusions 
Deductive learning is the process of using
 conclusions to form observations 

How is KNN different from K-means clustering?
KNN : supervised , classification

kmeans : unsupervised , clustering


How to deal with null values ?

1.You can delete them using dropna function 

2.Replace those null values with mean/median

example : data["Age"] = data["Age"].replace(np.NaN, data["Age"].mean())








