Deep learning : 

It is a subset of artificial intelligence through which we can train the 
system to identify,understand and make accurate predictions

We neural network model to acheive the objective of deep learning

Neural network : It is an artificial system which works similarily to our human brain
It has some set of ayers and in each layer we have some set of of neurons or we call them
as nodes.
And the layers are mainly classified into input layer,hidden layer and output layer.

Input layer :

As the name suggests, it accepts inputs in several 
different formats provided by the programmer.

Hidden Layer:

The hidden layer presents in-between input and output layers. 
It performs all the calculations to find recognize features and patterns.

Output Layer:

The result is obtained through output layer it may contain one or more neurons

Working :

Each neuron in the hidden layer will be get assigned by some value that ranges from 0 to 1 throgh activation function
what this activation function does is it multipes the input value which comes from input layer
with some weight and adds some value called bias and this calculated value is returned through our activation 
which makes some neurons to fire i mean they get activated so in the hidden layer only some neurons gets activated 
and this continues till we reach the output finally it comes to output only one neuron is fired or may 1 or more in some cases 
and that neuron gives us that prediction 

I can explain you with an example 


suppose we want to build hand written recognition system which can able to predict the digits that are hand written

whenevr we pass an image which consistes of number that is handwritten it should predict the number is 8.

so what we wanna do is each image is in 24*24 pixel format so we have a total 576 pixels so the 
input layer consists of 576 neurons and each neural hold 1 pixel and the value of that pixel will be some 
grayscale value that is 1 if it is pure white 0 if the pixel is of pure black and 0.5 if the pixel is of gray.


This is the job of input layer. now these values are passed as parametrs to the net layer that to hidden llayer
these parametrs are taken by functions acalled as activation function and return a value that may range between 0 to 1
0 mean the neuron did not fire 1 means the neuron fired. So when we talk generally what is task of this activation function is 
to identify some patterns like say 0 may be in oval and 1 has a single line and 8 has two oops and 5 may contains a half open 
loop and single line on head like this the each neuron in the hidden layer gets activated or gets fired it found certain pattern 
in hidden layer there 3 neurons which are activated when they we pass the number 4 that means 1 neuron identyfing the stright line shape
and other neuron identifying the L shaped line so again the activation function is calculated on out[ut layer and finally only neuron fires in
the last layer and since the numbers ranges from 0 to 9 . we have 10 neurons so each neuroon indicated some number and neuron which imlies 4 gets fired
and thats our answer.

How the neurons are trained to recognize the patterns?

First we train them by feeding them with input as well as output data . we assign some random values of those
weights and bias. They predict the output and of course since we are passing  some random values of weights and bias 
we get wrong op . so we say that this is wrong and make the algorithm to back paropagate from op to ip layer
and we try to adust these weights and bias and make prdiction if we get wrong op we again back propagate and 
adjust the weights and biases once more. thus we keep on adjusting these wts and bs untill we see that the systems is 
predicting correct op.
now we test by some unknown ip data it predicts correctly.




  
 

